DUTY ETHICS

Action:
    Morton Thiokol recommending the launch of Challenger to proceed, noting "Lund (of Thiokol) reversed his previous decision and recommended that the launch proceed."


Party 1 - Morton Thiokol:
Morton Thiokol violated their engineering duty of developing safe SRBs with sufficiently secure field joints.
Secondly, they ignored their duty to ensure the safety of the astronauts by giving in to the pressure and intimidation by NASA and clearing Challenger for launch.


Party 2 - NASA:
Morton Thiokol violated their duty to NASA of informing them about the gravity of the problem and halting shuttle launches until it was fixed.

"They did not call for a halt to shuttle flights until the joints could be redesigned, but rather treated the problem as an acceptable flight risk" - Wiki

"Thiokol even went as far as to persuade NASA to declare the O-ring problem "closed"" - Wiki


Action:
NASA did not want to postpone the launch, noting "NASA didn’t want to antagonize [Vice-President] Bush, a strong NASA supporter, by postponing the launch due to inclement weather after he had arrived."


Party 1 - Morton Thiokol:
NASA's violated its duty of paying heed to the concerns raised by Morton Thiokol by strong arming and intimidating Morton Thiokol into clearing Challenger for launch. 

"During the conference call, Hardy told Thiokol, "I am appalled. I am appalled by your recommendation." Mulloy said, "My God, Thiokol, when do you want me to launch — next April?"" - Wikipedia


Party 2:
NASA violated their duty to ensure the safety of their astronauts. In spite of the unfavorable weather as well as concerns raised by Morton Thiokol, NASA decided to gamble with their astronauts lives and gave in to political pressure.

"There was additional political pressure to launch the Challenger before the upcoming state-of-the-union address, in which President Reagan 
hoped to mention the shuttle and a special astronaut—the first teacher in space, Christa McAuliffe—in the context of his comments on education." - FLEDDERMANN

"President Reagan was scheduled to give the annual State of the Union address that very night, and, according to these critics, wanted to be able to tout the launch in that speech" - Wiki

"NASA’s budget was determined by Congress, which was becoming increasingly unhappy with delays in the shuttle project and shuttle performance. " - FLEDDERMANN